---
layout: page
title: Reflective Piece
tagline: Key reflections on machine learning module
image: images/pic02.jpg
bannerImage: images/pic11.jpg
spotlight: true
---

***Reflective Piece – Rhys Dore***

E-portfolio link: https://rhysdore.github.io/UoE-forty/ 

During the group project, our group were required to create a report utilising machine learning methods applied to New York AirBnb data (New York City Airbnb Open Data, no date). For this report, we ensured to provide information regarding the exploratory analysis, unsupervised clustering, and a final creation of an artificial neural network. My contribution involved help with the early exploratory analysis, and all of the unsupervised clustering. I also contributed to reviewing the work of my teammates and providing feedback. Finally, I believe that I contributed in further ways which include the recording of team meeting notes, the determination of appropriate times for meetings that work for all teammates, and ensuring effective mediation within the team when making complex decisions with potential disagreements. 

I enjoyed my experience of working in a team. However, it is important to recognise that there were indeed complexities. One of the most notable difficulties was the fact that my team-mates were not necessarily in the same time zone. This meant that we had to be careful regarding finding meeting times that worked for all, and often working at outside of usual hours (Tang et al., 2011). Additionally, I quickly realised that we came from very different professional and personal backgrounds. As demonstrated throughout business-related literature, this was both a benefit and a difficulty, in view of having varied and interesting opinions regarding the possible plan, but this indeed also sometimes resulted in misunderstandings (Men et al., 2019). Therefore, I had to ensure that I was working particularly hard to be empathetic and to understand viewpoints that I had not previously considered. Sometimes this could be somewhat frustrating but over the multiple meetings I believe that we became closer as a time and were better able to relate to one another. 

Following this group activity, I believe that there are many things that I have learnt and that I will continue to develop in my future working groups. I have realised that importance of having varied professions when thinking of effective ideas and plans. This can be applied to artificial intelligence, but also a multitude of wider applications. In view of this, I will continue to seek diversity in my future endeavours. Notably, in view of this understanding, I have recently become a member of the UK Young Academy that brings together professionals from different backgrounds to collectively enact positive social change (UK Young Academy, no date). Additionally, I will continue to utilise the skills that I have developed in terms of active listening, negotiation, and constructive compromise within future working groups. Finally, I have learnt about the importance of effective early plans and the need to equally distribute work, as well as trust each other’s work, in order to effectively provide a completed group project within a defined timeframe.  

In terms of my personal project, I have worked to develop various type of artificial neural networks in order to train an algorithm for image recognition using the cifar-10 dataset (Krizhevsky, 2009). This has resulted in me utilising convoluted neural networks with base models, various activation functions, and variable numbers of epochs. I have also been able to develop my understanding of loss functions, learning rates, and model assessment. This project has allowed me to develop my Python coding skills and to learn how to optimise models for practical usability when limited by compute. 

During my personal project, I initially felt concerned regarding using Python considering that I am far more acquainted with R. The literature has previously demonstrated that changing coding languages can prove difficult (Espinal, Vieira and Guerrero-Bequis, 2023). However, the availability of baseline example code by the tutor allowed me to ensure that I was working effectively. There is evidence that a particular barrier is trying to utilise a new language in the same way as a familiar language, and therefore I purposely tried to avoid that pitfall (Shrestha et al., 2020). Additionally, I recognise that it is vital to learn Python to remain competitive within the area of coding. I also was surprised by how quickly I was able to pick up this new language, compared to when first learning R. This is likely due to the degree of transferable skills that I have learnt with R. Therefore, I feel far more confident with approaching any other language within the future. I have since been considering approaching languages such as Rust and/or Julia – which have their own particular benefits (Bezanson et al., 2012; Bugden, Alahmar and Author, 2022).

Regarding the various modules and learning otherwise throughout the course, I have learnt a huge range of information. This includes regarding the aspects required to create effective machine learning models, as well as the huge, varied type of models which exist, ranging from unsupervised to supervised learning, and ranging from simplistic clustering to more complex multi-layered neural networks (Janiesch, Zschech and Heinrich, 2021). I have been exposed to the underlying mathematics of these models and have been able to significantly build upon previously learning within the Numerical Analysis module. In addition to the basic science behind machine learning, I have also been exposed to understanding more regarding the socio-ethical framework that exists within the world of artificial intelligence, and the concerning results of infarctions to these moral expectations (Siau and Wang, 1AD; Hagendorff, 2020). I did not necessarily appreciate the complexity of the field of artificial intelligence, and I believe that this module has been particularly eye-opening. I will be able to approach machine learning with a newfound appreciation and wariness, when considering the grand possibility of the future and the stark pitfalls of its potential misuse.

Overall, I have very much enjoyed this module. I have been able to incorporate group-learning skills, coding skills, analytic skills, and practical provision of machine learning models to ensure that I have developed a vast, broad, and comprehensive understanding of machine learning. I will undoubtedly be continuing to work within this field and already have various plans to incorporate machine learning within my academic work. 


References:
- Bezanson, J. et al. (2012) ‘Julia: A Fast Dynamic Language for Technical Computing’. Available at: https://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5145v1 (Accessed: 15 February 2024).
- Bugden, W., Alahmar, A. and Author, C. (2022) ‘Rust: The Programming Language for Safety and Performance’, Igscong’22 [Preprint], (June). Available at: https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.05503v1 (Accessed: 15 February 2024).
- Espinal, A., Vieira, C. and Guerrero-Bequis, V. (2023) ‘Student ability and difficulties with transfer from a block-based programming language into other programming languages: a case study in Colombia’, Computer Science Education, 33(4), pp. 567–599. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1080/08993408.2022.2079867.
- Hagendorff, T. (2020) ‘The Ethics of AI Ethics: An Evaluation of Guidelines’, Minds and Machines, 30(1), pp. 99–120. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1007/S11023-020-09517-8/TABLES/1.
- Janiesch, C., Zschech, P. and Heinrich, K. (2021) ‘Machine learning and deep learning’, Electronic Markets, 31(3), pp. 685–695. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1007/S12525-021-00475-2/TABLES/2.
- Krizhevsky, A. (2009) Learning Multiple Layers of Features from Tiny Images. Toronto.
- Men, C. et al. (2019) ‘When and how knowledge sharing benefits team creativity: The importance of cognitive team diversity’, Journal of Management & Organization, 25(6), pp. 807–824. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1017/JMO.2017.47.
- New York City Airbnb Open Data (no date). Available at: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/dgomonov/new-york-city-airbnb-open-data (Accessed: 15 February 2024).
- Shrestha, N. et al. (2020) ‘Herewe go again: Why is it difficult for developers to learn another programming language’, Proceedings - International Conference on Software Engineering, pp. 691–701. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1145/3377811.3380352.
- Siau, K. and Wang, W. (1AD) ‘Artificial Intelligence (AI) Ethics: Ethics of AI and Ethical AI’, https://services.igi-global.com/resolvedoi/resolve.aspx?doi=10.4018/JDM.2020040105, 31(2), pp. 74–87. Available at: https://doi.org/10.4018/JDM.2020040105.
- Tang, J.C. et al. (2011) ‘Your time zone or mine? : A study of globally time zone-shifted collaboration’, Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work, CSCW, pp. 235–244. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1145/1958824.1958860.
- UK Young Academy (no date). Available at: https://ukyoungacademy.org/ (Accessed: 15 February 2024).
